README.md, before:

# SFU CMPT 756 main project directory

This is the course repo for CMPT 756 (Spring 2022)

You will find resources for your assignments and term project here.


### 1. Instantiate the template files

#### Fill in the required values in the template variable file

Copy the file `cluster/tpl-vars-blank.txt` to `cluster/tpl-vars.txt`
and fill in all the required values in `tpl-vars.txt`.  These include
things like your AWS keys, your GitHub signon, and other identifying
information.  See the comments in that file for details. Note that you
will need to have installed Gatling
(https://gatling.io/open-source/start-testing/) first, because you
will be entering its path in `tpl-vars.txt`.

#### Instantiate the templates

Once you have filled in all the details, run

~~~
$ make -f k8s-tpl.mak templates
~~~

This will check that all the programs you will need have been
installed and are in the search path.  If any program is missing,
install it before proceeding.

The script will then generate makefiles personalized to the data that
you entered in `clusters/tpl-vars.txt`.

**Note:** This is the *only* time you will call `k8s-tpl.mak`
directly. This creates all the non-templated files, such as
`k8s.mak`.  You will use the non-templated makefiles in all the
remaining steps.

### 2. Ensure AWS DynamoDB is accessible/running

Regardless of where your cluster will run, it uses AWS DynamoDB
for its backend database. Check that you have the necessary tables
installed by running

~~~
$ aws dynamodb list-tables
~~~

The resulting output should include tables `User` and `Music`.

----


### Reference

This is the tree of this repo. 


The CI material at `ci` and `.github/workflows` are presently designed for Assignment 7 and the course's operation. They're not useable for you and should be removed. If you are ambitious or familiar with GitHub action, the one flow that may be _illustrative_ is `ci-to-dockerhub.yaml`. **It is not directly useable as you team repo will not use templates.**
```
├── ./.github
│   └── ./.github/workflows
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-a1.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-a2.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-a3.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-mk-test.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-system-v1.1.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-system-v1.yaml
│       └── ./.github/workflows/ci-to-dockerhub.yaml
├── ./ci
│   ├── ./ci/v1
│   └── ./ci/v1.1
```

Be careful to only commit files without any secrets (AWS keys). 
```
├── ./cluster
```

These are templates for the course and should be removed.
```
├── ./allclouds-tpl.mak
├── ./api-tpl.mak
├── ./az-tpl.mak
│   ├── ./ci/create-local-tables-tpl.sh
│   │   ├── ./ci/v1/compose-tpl.yaml
│       ├── ./ci/v1.1/compose-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/awscred-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/cloudformationdynamodb-tpl.json
│   ├── ./cluster/db-nohealth-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/db-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/dynamodb-service-entry-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/loader-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s1-nohealth-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s1-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s2-dpl-v1-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s2-dpl-v2-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s2-nohealth-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/tpl-vars-blank.txt
│   ├── ./db/app-tpl.py
├── ./eks-tpl.mak
│   ├── ./gcloud/gcloud-build-tpl.sh
│   └── ./gcloud/shell-tpl.sh
├── ./gcp-tpl.mak
├── ./k8s-tpl.mak
├── ./mk-tpl.mak
│   │   ├── ./s2/standalone/README-tpl.md
│   │   └── ./s2/standalone/unique_code-tpl.py
│   │   └── ./s2/v1/unique_code-tpl.py
```

Support material for using this repo in the CSIL lab.
```
├── ./csil-build
```

The core of the microservices. `s2/v1.1`, `s2/v2`, and `s2/standalone`  are for use with Assignments. For your term project, work and/or derive from the `v1` version.
```
├── ./db
├── ./s1
├── ./s2
│   ├── ./s2/standalone
│   │   ├── ./s2/standalone/__pycache__
│   │   └── ./s2/standalone/odd
│   ├── ./s2/test
│   ├── ./s2/v1
│   ├── ./s2/v1.1
│   └── ./s2/v2
```

`results` and `target` need to be created but they are ephemeral and do not need to be saved/committed.
```
├── ./gatling
│   ├── ./gatling/resources
│   ├── ./gatling/results
│   │   ├── ./gatling/results/readmusicsim-20220204210034251
│   │   └── ./gatling/results/readusersim-20220311171600548
│   ├── ./gatling/simulations
│   │   └── ./gatling/simulations/proj756
│   └── ./gatling/target
│       └── ./gatling/target/test-classes
│           ├── ./gatling/target/test-classes/computerdatabase
│           └── ./gatling/target/test-classes/proj756
```

Support material for using this repo with GCP (GKE).
```
├── ./gcloud
```

A small job for loading DynamoDB with some fixtures.
```
├── ./loader
```

Logs files are saved here to reduce clutter.
```
├── ./logs
```

Assignment 4's CLI for the Music service. It's non-core to the Music microservices.
```
├── ./mcli
```

Deprecated material for operating the API via Postman.
```
├── ./postman
```

Redundant copies of the AWS macros for the tool container. You should use the copy at [https://github.com/overcoil/c756-quickies](https://github.com/overcoil/c756-quickies) instead.
```
├── ./profiles
```

Reference material for istio and Prometheus.
```
├── ./reference
```

Assorted scripts that you can pick and choose from:
```
└── ./tools
```

Commit message:

clarify mcli for non-Intel

README.md, after:

# SFU CMPT 756 main project directory

This is the course repo for CMPT 756 (Spring 2022)

You will find resources for your assignments and term project here.


### 1. Instantiate the template files

#### Fill in the required values in the template variable file

Copy the file `cluster/tpl-vars-blank.txt` to `cluster/tpl-vars.txt`
and fill in all the required values in `tpl-vars.txt`.  These include
things like your AWS keys, your GitHub signon, and other identifying
information.  See the comments in that file for details. Note that you
will need to have installed Gatling
(https://gatling.io/open-source/start-testing/) first, because you
will be entering its path in `tpl-vars.txt`.

#### Instantiate the templates

Once you have filled in all the details, run

~~~
$ make -f k8s-tpl.mak templates
~~~

This will check that all the programs you will need have been
installed and are in the search path.  If any program is missing,
install it before proceeding.

The script will then generate makefiles personalized to the data that
you entered in `clusters/tpl-vars.txt`.

**Note:** This is the *only* time you will call `k8s-tpl.mak`
directly. This creates all the non-templated files, such as
`k8s.mak`.  You will use the non-templated makefiles in all the
remaining steps.

### 2. Ensure AWS DynamoDB is accessible/running

Regardless of where your cluster will run, it uses AWS DynamoDB
for its backend database. Check that you have the necessary tables
installed by running

~~~
$ aws dynamodb list-tables
~~~

The resulting output should include tables `User` and `Music`.

----


### Reference

This is the tree of this repo. 


The CI material at `ci` and `.github/workflows` are presently designed for Assignment 7 and the course's operation. They're not useable for you and should be removed. If you are ambitious or familiar with GitHub action, the one flow that may be _illustrative_ is `ci-to-dockerhub.yaml`. **It is not directly useable as you team repo will not use templates.**
```
├── ./.github
│   └── ./.github/workflows
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-a1.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-a2.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-a3.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-mk-test.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-system-v1.1.yaml
│       ├── ./.github/workflows/ci-system-v1.yaml
│       └── ./.github/workflows/ci-to-dockerhub.yaml
├── ./ci
│   ├── ./ci/v1
│   └── ./ci/v1.1
```

Be careful to only commit files without any secrets (AWS keys). 
```
├── ./cluster
```

These are templates for the course and should be removed.
```
├── ./allclouds-tpl.mak
├── ./api-tpl.mak
├── ./az-tpl.mak
│   ├── ./ci/create-local-tables-tpl.sh
│   │   ├── ./ci/v1/compose-tpl.yaml
│       ├── ./ci/v1.1/compose-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/awscred-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/cloudformationdynamodb-tpl.json
│   ├── ./cluster/db-nohealth-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/db-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/dynamodb-service-entry-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/loader-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s1-nohealth-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s1-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s2-dpl-v1-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s2-dpl-v2-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/s2-nohealth-tpl.yaml
│   ├── ./cluster/tpl-vars-blank.txt
│   ├── ./db/app-tpl.py
├── ./eks-tpl.mak
│   ├── ./gcloud/gcloud-build-tpl.sh
│   └── ./gcloud/shell-tpl.sh
├── ./gcp-tpl.mak
├── ./k8s-tpl.mak
├── ./mk-tpl.mak
│   │   ├── ./s2/standalone/README-tpl.md
│   │   └── ./s2/standalone/unique_code-tpl.py
│   │   └── ./s2/v1/unique_code-tpl.py
```

Support material for using this repo in the CSIL lab.
```
├── ./csil-build
```

The core of the microservices. `s2/v1.1`, `s2/v2`, and `s2/standalone`  are for use with Assignments. For your term project, work and/or derive from the `v1` version.
```
├── ./db
├── ./s1
├── ./s2
│   ├── ./s2/standalone
│   │   ├── ./s2/standalone/__pycache__
│   │   └── ./s2/standalone/odd
│   ├── ./s2/test
│   ├── ./s2/v1
│   ├── ./s2/v1.1
│   └── ./s2/v2
```

`results` and `target` need to be created but they are ephemeral and do not need to be saved/committed.
```
├── ./gatling
│   ├── ./gatling/resources
│   ├── ./gatling/results
│   │   ├── ./gatling/results/readmusicsim-20220204210034251
│   │   └── ./gatling/results/readusersim-20220311171600548
│   ├── ./gatling/simulations
│   │   └── ./gatling/simulations/proj756
│   └── ./gatling/target
│       └── ./gatling/target/test-classes
│           ├── ./gatling/target/test-classes/computerdatabase
│           └── ./gatling/target/test-classes/proj756
```

Support material for using this repo with GCP (GKE).
```
├── ./gcloud
```

A small job for loading DynamoDB with some fixtures.
```
├── ./loader
```

Logs files are saved here to reduce clutter.
```
├── ./logs
```

Assignment 4's CLI for the Music service. It's non-core to the Music microservices. At present, it is only useable for the Intel architecture. If you are working from an M1 Mac, you will not be able to build/use this. The workaround is to build/run from an (Intel) EC2 instance.
```
├── ./mcli
```

Deprecated material for operating the API via Postman.
```
├── ./postman
```

Redundant copies of the AWS macros for the tool container. You should use the copy at [https://github.com/overcoil/c756-quickies](https://github.com/overcoil/c756-quickies) instead.
```
├── ./profiles
```

Reference material for istio and Prometheus.
```
├── ./reference
```

Assorted scripts that you can pick and choose from:
```
└── ./tools
```
